
Skip to Content
?ENTER
Skip to Menu
?ENTER
Skip to Footer
?ENTER
Brian Tracy International

    Categories
    Blog
    Shop
    Speaking & Coaching
    My Account

    Personal Success
    Sales Success
    Business Success
    Leadership Success

9 Success Factors for Personal Growth: Moving Forward to Achieve Your Best Life

Personal Success

There are nine success factors that you must know in order to start moving forward in life.

Each one of these success factors has been proven to be critical to the achievement of the best life possible for any given person. By systematically implementing one or more of these success factors into your life, you can put your foot on the accelerator of your own career and achieve the best life for yourself.
1. Education

The first of the nine success factors is education.

In our society, the highest paid people are those who know more than the average. They know more of the critical facts, ideas and information than the average person in their field. As a result, they can make a more valuable contribution to a knowledge-based society and live the best life possible. They are valued more, respected more and ultimately paid more money and promoted more often.

The rule is that, "to earn more, you must learn more." If you want to increase your level of income and achieve the best life for yourself, you must increase your level of intellectual capital and thereby the value of the knowledge component of what you are doing.
2. Skill

The second of the nine success factors that you can use to achieve the best life possible is simply skill.

Your level of ability in your field will determine the quality and quantity of your results. The better you get at what you do, the easier it is for you to start moving forward to get a particular level of results.

As you increase your skill, through study and experience, you get better and better at doing the small things that increase the speed and predictability of your results.
3. Contacts

The third success factor for moving forward and achieving the best life is by developing an ever-widening circle of contacts.

You will find that every major change in your life is accompanied by a person or persons who either opens or closes doors for you. The possibility of the best life for you will be determined by the number of people who know you and like you and who are willing to help you.

In order to broaden your network of contacts, you must network continually, at every opportunity. There seems to be a direct relationship between the number of people you know and how successful you are.
4. Money

Having money in the bank gives you greater freedom and the ability to take advantage of opportunities when they come along. If you are broke, or in debt, you have very few options open to you.

One of the most important things I ever learned in life is that you are only as free as your options. If you have no options, you have no freedom. If you are stuck in a dead-end job that you cannot leave because you have no money set aside, you have put a brake on your potential. You are locked in place and have no option for moving forward. You can end up spinning your wheels and losing months and years of your time by the very fact that you have no choice but to accept whatever is being handed to you.
5. Good Work Habits

The fifth of the success factors that enables you to get far more done in a shorter period of time is simply good work habits.

Your ability to increase your ROTI, or "Return on Time Invested" can enable you to accomplish vastly more in a shorter period of time than another person who is disorganized and sloppy.

Developing good work habits requires that you think before acting. You make a list and set priorities on the list before you begin. Good work habits require that you consider the likely consequences, positive or negative of what you are doing.
6. Positive Mental Attitude

The sixth success factor for your career and life is to reduce the amount of time that it takes you to achieve your goals is by developing a positive mental attitude.

A positive mental attitude is very much a decision that you make. Remember, you become what you do. If you engage in the same activities that positive, confident, optimistic people engage in, you will eventually become one of them and live your best life possible.

Anyone can remain positive when things are going well. It is your ability to look for the good in every situation that you see positive and start moving forward in life.
7. Positive Image

The seventh of the success factors you can incorporate into your lifestyle, and one that can help you achieve the best life for yourself, is the development of a positive image.

People judge you by the way you look on the outside, by the way you appear. The fact is that you judge everyone else by the way they look on the outside, as well. Taking time to present an attractive image in your person, your clothing, your grooming and your accessories can have an inordinate impact on the doors that open for you and the people who are willing to help you start moving forward in your life.
8. Creativity

Creativity is another wonderful way to start moving forward in life and to increase the speed at which you achieve your goals. Creativity is something that requires that you continually look for better, faster, easier, cheaper ways to get the job done. Remember, one good idea is all you need to start a fortune.
9. Character

Perhaps the most important of the success factors to accelerating your life is your character.

Self-discipline combined with honesty will open countless doors for you.

Trust is the foundation of all relationships. When people know you and believe in you and are convinced that they can trust you to keep your word and do what you say you will do, they will feel that they are far more likely to get the things they want through you, to get the things they want, faster, sooner, easier and with greater certainty.

Thank you for reading this article on moving forward and living the best life possible. Do you know of any other factors that can help you become successful and accelerate your career?

Do you want to start achieving any goal you can imagine? It all starts with my 14-Step Goal-Setting Guide.

To learn how to form great habits that will lead you to success, check out my recent post 7 Goal Oriented Habits Of Successful People.

« Previous Post
10 Reasons Why Top Salespeople are Successful: Boost Your Sales Career Next Post »
The 3 Laws of Leadership: Inspiring Your Team to Peak Performance

About Brian Tracy - Brian is recognized as the top sales training and personal success authority in the world today. He has authored more than 60 books and has produced more than 500 audio and video learning programs on sales, management, business success and personal development, including worldwide bestseller The Psychology of Achievement. Brian's goal is to help you achieve your personal and business goals faster and easier than you ever imagined. You can follow him on Google+, Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, Linkedin and Youtube.

    Instagram
    Twitter
    Facebook
    Pinterest
    Linkedin
    Youtube

    Most Recent
    Popular
    Free

    The 10-Step Problem Solving Process to Overcome Any Issue
    The Ultimate Guide to Public Speaking: Everything From Speech Writing to Speaking Fees
    How to Avoid Burnout at Work
    19 Public Speaking Tips From Brian Tracy's Professional Speaker Career
    4 Tips to Help You Book Your First Speaking Engagement

Browse Categories

    Business Success
    Financial Success
    Leadership Success
    Personal Success
    Public Speaking
    Sales Success
    Time Management
    Writing

Follow Brian & Join the Discussion

    Instagram
    Twitter
    Facebook
    Pinterest
    Linkedin
    Youtube

Explore

    Home
    Blog
    Learn
    Newsletter
    Shop
    Free Resources

Shop

    Best Sellers
    Personal Success
    Sales Training
    Business Training
    Time Management
    Leadership

Support

    Contact Us
    Knowledge Base
    Shipping & Returns
    Site map
    Privacy Policy

About

    About Brian
    Speaking
    Coaching
    Affiliates
    Brian Recommends

Search

Your Privacy is Guaranteed. We will never give, lease or sell your personal information. Period!

© Copyright 2001-2021 Brian Tracy International.
All Rights Reserved.
5
Shares
FacebookFacebook LikeTwitterLinkedInSumoMe
Your privacy and our use of cookies:

We use cookies on our site, which may be tracked to improve your experience and manage our marketing/analytics. To accept cookies, and continue viewing this website, please click CONTINUE. You may CLICK HERE to read our cookie policy, or HERE to learn how to disable cookies. Disabling cookies may prevent the site from working efficiently.
